It's probably safe to say that the goal of
the security compliance function is to be compliant.
What does it mean to be compliant?
It means that you're meeting some obligation or living up to some expectation.
For example, you must watch this video in
order to complete the GRC course.If you watch this video,
you're in compliance with this statement,
or more specific to security.You
must have a firewall that blocks unnecessary ingress traffic.
Ingress, of course, meaning incoming traffic,
if you have that, you comply.
Let's drill down on the word obligation.
It's used to represent just a couple of things.
There's what I'll describe as the big obligation,
meaning the top-level sources of compliance or the document level.This is Sarbanes-Oxley,
this is HIPAA, this is ISO 27001.
Then there's what I'll describe as the little obligation,
meaning the low-level items within
the documents that specify a particular action or control.
These are the sentences or clauses within the document.
Like for instance, you must have an eight character password.
These are also called control objectives,
and to try to avoid confusion,
I'm going to call the top-level documents obligations,
and then I'll try to call the lower-level statements control objectives.
We're going to talk about how these relate to your organization soon.
But for now, know that the goal of security compliance is to meet
specific control objectives to be compliant with obligations.
Here's an obligation example.
Take what's referred to as the 14 cloud security principles.
This is a standard published by the UK National Cyber Security Center that
provides guidance for companies that wish to do business with UK federal departments.
The published standard is the top-level obligation,
and the clauses are the low-level obligations or control objectives.
So in this case,
the control objective in Section 1,
recommends that you must deploy TLS as
the primary data in transit protection for exposed interfaces from your service.
Now, that we know what we're complying with,
let's look at how we comply.
Compliance can mean a number of things.
There's meeting the latter of an obligation.
Meaning you've gone through assessed every control objective,
and made sure that your organization does exactly as prescribed.
Does that mean that you're in compliance?
Probably, but maybe not different high-level compliance objectives
may require that you prove your compliance in different ways.
One of those ways is independent assessment,
meaning that an auditor or assessor examines
your organizations controls against the compliance objective.
If you followed the obligation to the letter,
then you'll theoretically meet the expectations of the assessor
and you'll be deemed compliant or certified.
There's also self-certification.
Other compliance obligations may allow you to self-certify or assert your compliance.
So if you've gone through every control objective and insured,
your organization meets them,
you could say that you are compliant with that standard.
HIPAA, for instance, doesn't have an actual compliance certification,
but many organizations say they are HIPAA compliant.
Finally, there are some exceptions.
It is possible to be compliant with an obligation without,
actually, being fully compliant.
In certain cases, a compliance obligation may
allow organizations to claim compliance if they meet
a measure like a percentage or otherwise of
certain controls or have in place what we describe as compensating controls.
Controls that aren't a hundred percent in line,
but do mitigate the risk in some way that are
intended to be satisfied by the given control objective.